I'm wondering, is this on? Oh, perfect. Yeah. Great. No, thank you very much. Thanks for
the intro. And I have to admit, I feel quite inadequate with my slide decks after watching
everybody else's. However, if you want tips around how to have two columns in a slide
IO, I have a solution for you. So anyways, I just want to basically start by saying,
I don't know if you guys attended the keynote speech by JJ. Wasn't that the most awesome
keynote speech? I was getting teary-eyed. I don't know if it was me or not. It was one
of those things that you're trying to hide, like cleaning your eyes. So anyways, my name
is Nima Safaian. So Rpanda Trading Solution is a simulator for commodity asset optimization.
So a little bit about us. When I was preparing for this talk, I don't know to what extent
you can see our pictures there. But when I was getting ready for this talk, I had a
bit of a dilemma. Do I get technical talk about our solutions or talk about the business
that we're in, in general, and kind of tell you about our idea and the concept? So the
tip I got from a good friend was that, no, people here, they know about R. They know
about Shiny. Spend your time talking about the business you're in and talk about the
solution that you're providing. So I'm going to get into it. This is a side project for
us. However, we have registered it as a company in Kelowna, BC. So if you're familiar where
Kelowna is, it's actually not that far from here. That's almost like British Columbia's
answer to Napa Valley. I mean, it's not as nice, but it's good for us. And we registered
the company there and it was kind of over a couple of bottles of wine that me and my
business partner basically decided that we need to get this going. However, both of us
live and work in Calgary. So a little bit about us. So my partner, he has built and
expanded a number of commodity trading groups, working for BP Energy Trading and then working
for a bank in Canada. And he has done it globally and also in Canada. I'm currently running
a market analytics team for a company called Synovus Energy. So that's kind of my day job.
So within that day job, we deal like in energy business. I don't know how much in this room
you're familiar with that. We deal with quite a bit of complexity. So this is a leaflet
map, if I can get it to work, of North American oil infrastructure. So the dots you see, the
black dots you see there are refineries that are dotted in various sort of what's called
pads in US. And these are districts that have a historical reason for energy security and
defense. But however, that's a way of kind of looking at the market. And then what you
see in terms of green are all the oil pipelines that bring oil from production basins in Canada
and in Texas to where the refineries are. So this is only oil infrastructure. I mean,
if I overlaid, for example, natural gas here, it would have been a quite a complicated sort
of map and it would have not been that useful. But what I want to highlight here is energy
business is a complex business. It's both complex from a sort of systematic perspective
because it has all sorts of moving parts, various assets, different locations, but also
it's dynamically complex because it's exposed to a lot of exogenous shocks. For example,
you know, right now what's topical is coronavirus. So coronavirus in Asia has had a significant
impact on perception of change in jet fuel use because the idea is that, you know, you're
basically, you know, you're not going to, people are not going to fly as much. So that
has a cascading effect on oil demand, on refinery utilization. And given that all of these energies
are interconnected, that has an impact on an overall sort of stack of energies. So over
the years to kind of working in a trade shop that actively trades these assets and energies,
you kind of realize that, you know, tools like Excel wouldn't cut it anymore. So you
have to kind of go for something a little bit more advanced. So I mean, since I think
2012 when I got introduced to R, I've been using that and deploying that in my workplace
to effectively break down complexity, take a complex problem, albeit in a trading analytics
context, use visualizations, use clustering, use machine learning to create simple models
that we can basically use in order to force an action or encourage an action in terms
of a trading position. However, though, I mean, with all of that, all of those tools,
and in fact, like kind of, it's a funny, funny thing in our work, just to give you a bit
of a perspective is when, so people kind of joke, and these are not necessarily R users,
they joke that, you know, when I'm faced with a very difficult business problem, they basically
say, oh, we can hire somebody and give them Excel and get them working on it for a year,
or it's going to be four lines of R code. So that's kind of, it's a bit of a mystique
around it in our workplace, and it's very, it's kind of interesting, and I think it's
a sentiment that's shared by a lot of people in this conference. However, though, with
simplifying that complexity through data science, you still need traders. I mean, we are not
at a point that we can kind of automatically decide on risk reward decisions. So you need
that human factor, and what makes a good trader is somebody that can scan the energy environment,
find signs of market dislocations, and use optionality of their assets. So we are talking
not necessarily guys that do futures trading, but these are asset traders. So they basically
go and rent a tank, or, you know, they basically, these are trade shops that own refineries
or own transport assets, such as pipelines, which basically, when you think about it,
it's a, by itself, it can be modeled as a option. It's an option to move one energy
across time, meaning that you can store in one time period, withdraw in a different time
period. You can move energies through location. Let's say, you know, you basically move a
barrel of crude oil from Canada to Texas, or you can change it in form. So let's say
you can use a refinery to produce refined products. So at any, every, any of those steps
that you take, there's an opportunity to capture an arbitrage. So in some ways, like, you know,
when you actually, we model that in, from a valuation perspective, we are looking at
these as a call option on a spread or a spread option for those of you who are, come from
that quant background. So the traders always are in the lookout for assets that gives them
the highest optionality. So, and their ability to monetize these assets is what makes them
a good trader. And some of these are, you know, when you actually pick up, pick, take
a pipeline commitment, for example, as an oil company or a trade shop, you're actually
looking at a long-term commitment that locks you in for, for many years. So, so there is
a level of consequence involved with, with these decisions. So, so your ability to actually
see complexity, see, see the effectively signal through noise and cut through complexity
is, is key as a trader. So with that problem in mind and, and, you know, the, the other
thing about trading is like, there is a misperception. I think that some people are naturally good
traders. I think it's a skill that can be learned. And in fact, working for some of
the main, big trading company as part of a multinational oil company, my past experience,
you kind of realize that there is a bit of a method to this madness in terms of hiring,
teaching and, and training your, your traders. And, and some companies do that consistently
and do that across the board, which, which kind of got us thinking around, you know,
can we actually find, develop a set of tools with assessment modules, with training courses
that could actually codify some of that, some of those rules that would allow you to select
good traders, train them and, and, and incorporate them into your, into your company. So, so
this is our first sort of, I kind of put that as a bit of a thing on that slide deck, which
is, this is our first lean canvas. For those of you I've kind of dealt with starting, starting
doing a startup, sort of starting a startup where we're actually participating in one
of these startup weekends. That's one of the things that they, they usually do. So
you basically have a problem. So, so the problem that we're trying to solve are trader competency
assessment and development. And we are trying to solve that for universities and, and later
on for, for corporations. And the solution that we provided and we have been testing
it over the past, past year are effectively three tools. And these tools are developed
in Shiny because that's what me and my business partner, Philip Cote, are familiar with. So
it kind of goes to tell you, we are not necessarily software developers, but we had an idea. This
is a very agile tool. We could basically bring it to life. And, and also a whole bunch of
trading modules and assessment frameworks that comes with that. So one is a multi-day
trader game where students currently in University of Alberta, they, they basically participate
in a basically one semester sort of trading game. They can trade commodity futures and
as part of their curriculum, they learn how to do a proper market call, learn about risk
reward analysis, learn about energy assets and infrastructures. And then every week they
basically put on a trade which they, they go and try to explain to their classmates
what the rationale of their trade is. And, and they see the result. By the end of the
semester, they actually, they get marked on the P&L that they accumulate and, and also
the insights that has, has gone to their, to their trading strategy. The other one that
I'm going to demo quickly here is our real time trader game. This is a one year of market
data condensed in 20 minutes. So every, every second is almost like a day. So it's a high
stress scenario that people actually trade real assets. And then the, finally the one
that we're kind of right now developing in a Shiny framework, it's kind of, I guess offline
right now is our negotiation game that you negotiate to purchase an asset. And, and it's,
it's kind of like we're trying to capture a lot of the discussions that happens as a,
in the process. So in terms of our technology stack, we have, we rely fully on open source.
We're using quite a bit of Plumber API. So there's a lot of talks around Plumber API.
It's a, if you haven't used it, it's one of the best products that that's out there. We
have actually developed an open source, a lot of our code. These are helper tools that,
you know, helps you with energy analysis, sort of pre-trade analysis. It's called RTL.
It is on GitHub currently, but as of yesterday, we submitted it to CRAN. So, so just a thing
of personal experience, you know, those warnings you see when you create a package, CRAN does
not accept any of those warnings. So you have to be very, very, it's, it's probably
one of the most frustrating things. So, oh wow. So, so quickly I want to now go through
my simulation software. So this is how it looks like. So you can trade futures. You
know, it's, it's all done in a shiny dashboard. So you see like the, I'm using invalidate
later quite a bit to, to kind of get this more reactive or get this reactive. So you
can actually look, do on the fly analysis. You can, you can now go and look at the news,
effectively the news feed. Some of it is fake news. Some of it is real. You can also see
some of the, you know, the overall sort of how you're doing in, in your trades. So I'm
using GT table for that, for if you're interested. So you can go and in this case you can go
and buy an asset. So in this case you're bidding on a pipeline. It gives you a code based off
of where the market is trading at. You go and approve it. And now you have the asset
that you can trade. So, so you can go on basically put a position against it. So given that I'm
running short in time, I'm not going to go through this in detail, but but I'm, I'm going
to do it, give you a real demo if you want to talk to me afterwards. So, so scaling challenges
was the biggest thing, you know, up to now I've kind of had the experience using shiny
and R and I thought I had it figured out until I had to scale and use invalidate later. So,
so basically our experience was after 10 users, we almost hit a limit. So what we did
was we kind of went and followed the best practice, which I'm kind of lying on that
one. We did not do that. So we effectively, we through brute force, we tried to add more
CPUs and didn't work. So then I have, I, again, I relied on my good friend in our studio who
connected me with our studio engineers and they basically put some sense into me in terms
of my code design. So, so the things, the takeaways, use Profvis, shiny cannon, use
it early and often. You can debug your code standalone for one user. It doesn't mean that
you can scale it. Do not read and write to disk. Do not use gg, ggplot. Use something
like Plotly, which is JavaScript based. And then finally, you know, you can have, there's
lots of talks here on, you know, how to scale things. I wish I actually attended this conference
last year. So what's next for us? We are expanding our platform to more universities. We want
to have a global competition. So scaling is important for us. We are incorporating
NLP and learning algorithms, reinforcement learning in particular to actually start not
only to collect a lot of, a lot more data, which is in terms of chat and texts that people,
traders are actually conducting among themselves, but also to play this game in conjunction
with a human trader to understand what good looks like. And also incorporate maybe features
that nudge traders in terms of making better decisions. So almost like, you know, your
drive assist in your car. So, so yeah, that's, that's kind of my, that sums up my presentation.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Thank you, Nima. I've got just one question at the moment, but if you have more questions
please add them to, to Slido. We've got time for just a couple. Have you tried training
an AI model to trade commodities?
That's, that's an interesting one. That's, that's what we are trying to do using reinforcement
learning. We haven't, no. So that's our next to do, effectively, going forward.
Okay. Thank you very much, Nima.
Thank you very much.